Time Scale -- The Turn
The MARVEL SUPER HEROES game is played in turns, also called rounds. Each turn is six seconds of "real" time (about the amount of time that takes place in a panel of a comic story). There are therefore ten turns to a minute, and 600 turns to an hour.
Turns are only important when time is a crucial factor, such as situations where the hero must find a bomb before it explodes, chase down a suspect, or battle with an opponent. Most of the time, the Judge will not have the players run through periods of waiting. If the heroes decide to wait ten minutes for a bus, the Judge does not run through all 100 6-second turns of that wait (unless, of course, a villain pounces upon the heroes as they wait, at which point time is suddenly crucial).

A turn proceeds in the following fashion:
1)	The Judge determines what is happening in the world around the heroes, involving those characters and actions not controlled by the players. He notes these to himself, or, if he wishes, writes them down (writing things down is generally time-consuming, but helps in key situations). 
2)	The players in turn determine what their heroes are doing. Player's may perform more than one action during a turn, but this may limit the success of other actions. The players tell the judge what their characters are doing. 
3)	Roll Initiative. Initiative is only important when one action may change or override another action. The side with the highest initiative has its actions take place first. Initiative is usually used in combat and other damage-inducing situations. 
4)	Pre-Action rolls are made. In certain situations, such as defensive actions (dodging, blocking, and evading), a FEAT roll may be made before anyone on either sides takes any actions. These are Pre-Action FEATS and are rolled at this time. Certain moderator planned actions (such as explosions) may occur at this time. See Changing Actions, below. 
5)	The actions of the side with initiative take place. Run either the Judge's or the Player's actions, depending on which side got the high initiative. 
6)	The actions of the side that got the lower roll take place. Run the remaining side's actions. 

Initiative
After each side has decided its intended actions for a turn, each side rolls for initiative. The side with the higher roll is considered to have "won" initiative, and gets to move first (similar to winning the toss before a football game). All of one side's actions take place before the other sides. At the start of the next round, roll for initiative again, provided there are still at least two combatants whose actions will interfere with each other.
Initiative Modifier: Each side adds to its initiative mil a modifier based upon the highest Intuition on that side. This may allow a side with a low roll to gain initiative. A roll of "1" is always considered to be a "1." The initiative modifier is based on the character's rank number:

Intuition Rank	Imitative Modifier
Number
0 to 10	0
11 to 20	1
21 to 30	2
31 to 40	3
41 to 50	4
51 to 75	5
75 and up	6

Changing Actions: After making an initiative roll, an action that sounded so good a moment ago sounds like not such a great idea afterwards. Example: Both you and an opponent dive for a gun kicked across the floor. You roll a 1 for initiative. It may be time to re-examine your options. Changing an action requires a yellow Agility FEAT, and any FEATs made after changing are at a penalty of one column shift to the left(-1CS). The roll for changing actions takes place in the pre-action phase of the turn.
Negating Actions: Losing the initiative may negate certain actions. These are lost and may not be performed during that turn. For example, if you are knocked out before you can land a blow, you do not get a chance to take your action.
